=========================================================================
Date:         Thu, 19 Jan 1995 10:38:45 -0500
Reply-To:     Journal of Virtual Reality In Education Complete Journal
              <JVRE-ALL@SJUVM.STJOHNS.EDU>
Sender:       Journal of Virtual Reality In Education Complete Journal
              <JVRE-ALL@SJUVM.STJOHNS.EDU>
From:         Dick Banks <rbanks@SAVVY.COM>
Subject:      Learning Disability and Education in , the 21 st Century

@Copyright DUJVRE, Bob Zenhausern, Anne Pemberton, Lois Elman 1994

        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   29

       Learning Disability and Education in the 21st Century

                Robert  Zenhausern
                Anne Pemberton
                Lois Elman


The purpose of this article is two-fold.  To illustrate the kind of
discrimination faced by the Learning Disabled child or adult in our
society and to summarize some of the strategies and techniques that
are currently in use with this group, with an emphasis on Education
in the 21st Century.


The Nature of the Problem

In our culture, there is an underlying bias against all types of
cognitive disabilities that does not exist for those with sensory
disabilities.  The student who is blind is not blamed for being blind,
but learning disability is somehow seen as the fault of the student.
The child with learning disabilities is often accused of inattention
or not working hard enough. The victim is held responsible for the
problem and all would be well if he or she would "try harder".

On the other hand, no one says to a blind person, "If you try harder
you will be able to see." In the case of sensory and physical
disability, we make accommodations in recognition of the specific
disability and provide alternatives approaches.  We recognize the
limitation imposed by the disability and teach them to reach the same
goals as the non-handicapped using alternative approaches, e.g.
Talking Books, Closed Caption, and Computers. The LD person, on the
other hand, is often accused of laziness and inattention. Instead of
rehabilitation and accomodations, the LD person is given remedial
drills in what they have already demonstrated they cannot do.  Only
recently has there has been grudging acceptance of the need to
accommodate the LD individual.  On the elementary and secondary
levels, for example, there have been flexibility in the timing of
tests and acceptance of calculators and spell checker. Many of the
accommodations used in Learning Disability, however, have not always
served to improve the education of the LD, but seem more cosmetic.
The aim seems to be to allow the students to "pass" by giving them
lower goals rather than maximizing their potential.

The bias may start in grade school, but it continues throughout life
as this personal experience of Lois Elman illustrates most vividly.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   30

"In September 1993, I attended a national meeting, in Washington, for
parent advocates of disabled children and their families.  In my
conference packet was an application to be a grant reader for the
Federal Department of Education in Washington, D.C. Since so many of
these programs serviced people with disabilities, an effort was being
made to give that population a voice in deciding which programs
demonstrated merit to receive funding. Being the mother of two
children with disabilities and learning disabled myself, I decided to
give it a shot and apply.  As a school psychologist, I qualified on a
professional as well as a personal level.  Several months after having
filled out all the papers and senta detailed vita of my professional
experience, a representative of the Department phoned and invited me
to come to Washington. "After controlling my initial excitement, I
proceeded to remind the caller that as a learning disabled person I
had to cope with certain limitations.  I asked if I could use my
portable computer to write out any documentation and was told that
they didn't have a program which could be used with a Macintosh
platform.  Since everyone hand wrote their comments on special forms,
I was told that I had to do the same.  When I tried to explain, I was
told that maybe I could be given a Department portable computer but
there were people who were more needy than me attending the session.

"I don't think that anyone at the Department of Education would be
insensitive enough to arrange for a grant reader in a wheel chair to
stay in a hotel room which is not adapted to accommodate the width
of the chair through the bathroom door.  Just because a learning
disability is not obvious on first glance, doesn't the individual
deserve to be treated with dignity and regard for their difference?


The story and plea of Lois Elman illustrates the bias continues
throughout the lifespan.  Often the problem is not as blatant as that
experienced by Lois.  A good example of this can be seen in a series
of e-mail messages from young man in college.   Todd is a student with
LD who fought his way through the special education hoops and hurdles
to an Associate degree and is now enrolled in a 4 year college.

Todd's first message: "School is fine. It is a lot harder then I
thought it would be. I'm writing more papers then I did at my last
college but I am learned alot more about writing papers so it's not to
bad.  I'm only takeing 3 class, but I end up having to put a lot more
time in each of my class then my roommates do just to get the same
grades as they do.  Sometime it gets to me and I don't feel like going
on but I just remind my self of how far I have come and push on.  My
teachers are good this semester.  I go to them alot for help and they
set down with me and help me.  I also go to the learning center ever
day for help on writing.  They have helped me get better grades on my
papers then if I just did then my self.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   31

A few days later, a second message:

"Hi remmber when I said that I have trouble studing 5 chapters at once
well I have to do it for my Tuesday class.  This is the class that I
know what is going on but when it comes to takeing the test I don't do
as well as I want. I know what the problem is.  I have trouble
remmbering tec words. I can tell you what is going on but sometimes
that does not help on a test because the teacher wants just the word.

Todd has "dysnomia," which is characterized by an individual's
inability to find the correct word or words to express himself.  Ask
a dysnomic child "What is a steeple" and they will say, "The thing on
top of a church".  Ask "What is the thing on the top of a church
called?" and they cannot answer.  This child has difficulty reading
since they cannot articulate the printed word and have what can be
compared to a "tip of the tongue".  We have all probably experienced
the frustration of having a word or name just beyond our ability to
say it.  Such a child might read uncle for the word aunt.
Comprehension without articulation.

Fortunately for Todd, the teacher was a kind and patient man who gave
his time to help prepare Todd for the exam and he ultimately  did
very well.  The teacher was helping Todd by preparing him for the test
in private sessions.  I would hope that all teachers showed the
dedication of that man, but it is important to point out that he was
using a remediation approach and not accommodation.  An accommodation
to Todd's unique disability would have been to ask the questions in a
different way.  Changing the evaluation procedure, rather than drill
in passing a test would have been easier on both student and teacher.
Prepare a test for the student rather than prepare the student for a
test.  The whole experience had a very positive effect, as can be
seen in this message from Todd after a talk he gave on LD for one of
his classes.

"This was the first time that I ever gave a speech on this problem
and it made me feel special.  I liked the idea of telling people of a
problem that not too many know about.  I also felt that after my
speech my class mates treated me a little different. They never
treated me bad before but sometimes when I read out loud or spelled
something they would make fun of it.  Not really me just what I said
or spelled.  But after, one person came up to me and said, "I gess I
can't bother you about your spelling anymore.   I think if it is
possible that people who have these problems should say something and
teach other people about it so everyone can have a understanding of
what a LD person must go threw to learn to make in life.  Since then
Todd has found a pen pal in Virginia who has spina bifida and has
volunteered to be a tutor for LD students who are part of the DO-IT
project at the University of Washington.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   32

Even if this type of discrimination is eliminated, however, the
original learning disability remains and the next section of the
paper is a summary of how specific accomodations are being used.


                     Solutions in Technology

Low Technology

The use of Adaptive technology in the education of those with
learning disabilities has come a long way since the days of
"perceptual training" when the learning disabled were trained to walk
on balance beams in an effort to improve their reading skills.
Notebooks, three-ring binders, index cards, xerox copies of someone
else's notes, typewriters, color overlays, special colored glasses,
and color-coding, highlighters, vcr's and video tapes, tape recorders,
calculators, spell checkers, and personal computers are some of the
various high and low technology options used by the learning disabled.

Learning disabilities vary greatly from one individual to the next
making it difficult for others to determine what the problem is and
how to solve it.  Such a person must often diagnose and solve his or
her own problems, often battling problems with low self-esteem or a
sense they are "stupid" because others do not seem to have similar
problems.  Embarrassment over having to use various crutches and
adaptations often deter the learning disabled from sharing with
others what "works" for them.

There is a need for less drill and more alternative approaches to
learning, evaluation, and productivity.  In the Altlearn Discussion
Group (Altlearn@sjuvm.stjohns.edu,log9105) there was a debate on the
nature of Learning Disabilities that was punctuated by some heated
discussion.  There was considerable disagreement on many issues, but
all participants agreed on one thing:  an LD student must be taught in
the way he or she can learn and it was up to the educators to find
that way.

An interesting contrast can be seen in the use of technology in
Accommodation for the Blind and Remediation for the Learning Disabled.
Accommodation for the Blind can range Voice Box Synthesizers that
allow the Blind to communicate internationally across the Computer
Networks to a Guide Dog.  High Technology remediation for the LD child
is all too often the substitution of computer drilling for the
traditional workbook drills.  Low Technology Remediation is the
workbook without the computer.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   33

The following series of approaches aimed at educational disabilities
are based on actual research and classroom practices and illustrate
the scope of accomodations that have been used.  Markman and
Zenhausern (1989) found that about half the children in a mainstream
class and 85% of LD children can not use verbal rehearsal to learn
material.  They found that the classic "Cat, C- A-T, Cat" used for
spelling or the typical verbal repetition of the arithmetic tables
actually interfered with retention for these individuals.  The problem
is compounded by the fact that this verbal repetition approach to rote
learning is in such wide-spread use that individuals continue to use
this counter-productive strategy beyond the K-12 school years. They
question their own intellectual ability rather than the ineffectual
strategies they have been taught to use.  An alternative strategy is
for such individuals to learn rote material by imaging the letters or
numbers.  When it come time to recall the material they can retrieve
that image.  They must make a conscious effort not to repeat the
material either out loud or silently.

In contrast to this group, 15% of the individuals with the Learning
Disabled label and 50% of mainstream children can make very effective
use of a verbal repetition strategy. These are the people who learn
best by putting the ideas into their own words and explaining it to
someone else.  These are people who say they want to ask a question,
but actually repeat what was just said in their own words.  There is
an interesting distinction between the two groups of individuals:  one
learns best by listening, the other learns best by speaking.  This
distinction is not limited to those with LD but is manifested by
everyone to some degree.

Perhaps the most debilitating form of Learning Disability stems from a
problem with reading.  Difficulty with reading is one of the earliest
that appears in school and typically plagues individuals throughout
their lifetimes.  At home and in school, reading all too often means
the ability to translate verbatim the printed word into sound.
Skipping words and substitutions are unacceptable even though they
preserve the meaning of the text.  Individuals maintain that
inadequate definition of "reading" after the K-12 school years, and
thus maintain a self-image of reading disabled.

Kalisky, Zenhausern, and Andrews, 1990 found that most children we
have termed reading disabled do not learn to read because of the
standard strategy used to teach reading.  They identified two types
of reading disabled individuals.  The Phonetic Disabled group has
difficulty with the first step of standard reading methods, converting
a word to its sound.  This can be seen by their poor performance in
matching two words on the basis of rhyme despite the fact that they
can match on the basis of meaning.  These students struggle to
pronounce every word and as a result, often lose continuity in the
text.  They are dysnomic and suffer from chronic "tip of the tongue".


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   34

The second type of child is the Semantic Disabled reader who has no
problem with the matching of two words on the basis of rhyme, but
shows many more deficits in matching two words on the basis of
meaning.  These children will give a perfect word-for-word rendition
of text, but have no comprehension of the meaning of that text.  The
semantic disabled reader can convert words into their phonetic
representation, but there is no conversion of this representation into
its meaning.  Even non-reading disabled individuals have experienced
"reading" text and suddenly realized that they were not comprehending
the words that had been "read".  The Semantic Disabled reader does
this on a chronic level.   These two deficits exhibited by the
Phonetic and Semantic Reading Disabled Children can be directly
related to the standard approaches used when teaching reading.
Children come to school with auditory comprehension, that is, when
the they hear the word "ball" they know it means "a round, bouncy
thing".  Reading means that when children see the letters b-a-l-l they
know it means "a round, bouncy thing".  Virtually every reading method
is based on the strategy of converting the written word to its
phonological counterpart so that meaning is derived from auditory
comprehension.  This approach has been termed the indirect
phonological route to meaning.  The child sees the word, says the
word, and understands the word from its sound.  This can be most
clearly seen in a phonetic approach, but holds equally well for a
sight "look say" approach.

An alternative approach that does not depend on the standard indirect
phonological route to meaning has been termed Direct Access because it
teaches reading by connecting the printed word to its meaning
directly.  Direct Access at simplest level presents words and
corresponding pictures are on separate index cards. As soon as the
student learns to pair the words and pictures the student understands
the word.  The accommodation for these individuals is simple:  allow
the student to summarize what is read, or answer question about the
text, but do not require him or her to read aloud word for word. In
other words, the emphasis should be on comprehension rather than oral
rendition.  The Semantic Disabled reader can "read" aloud fluently,
but has no idea of what they have just read.  We all experience this
from time to time, but these students have the problem on a chronic
level.  They, especially have been called lazy or inattentive and
punished for their handicap.  These people can learn to read using the
Direct Access approach, but there is an instantaneous "cure" through
the use of accommodation.  Let the person read aloud into a tape
recorder and then listen to the recording to understand what was just
read.  This is a strategy that may be especially effective for adults
with semantic reading disability.  Incidentally, individuals who
fall into this group also tend to learn by speaking.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   35

Tape recorders are also invaluable for recording lectures and meetings
in order to accommodate difficulties with listening, comprehending and
remembering. For learning disabled person who find it easier to
concentrate with background noise, tape recorders or radios with small
headphones can provide the accommodating without disturbing others
nearby. VCR's, videos (including the many self-help and how-to videos
now on the market) are also especially useful to many learning
disabled persons.

In addition to the problems of learning to read, LD adults often
resort to the use a variety of solutions to everyday problems.
Co-author Lois Elmore shares her experiences in buying a small
business:

"The seller knew I was learning disabled because she had received a
detailed vita.  Yet, she wanted to negotiate the price of the business
without having the benefit of any other professionals being involved.
I realized that because I have gaps in my understanding of certain
types of communications, I needed to bring in another person to listen
and reflect back what was said.  I wound up bringing an accountant to
assist me with negotiations."

"Just as a person who is blind benefits from a scanner to input text
into the computer, I need other people to help me get around my
"blind spots".  In my way, I am using assistive technology.  I used to
be ashamed to ask someone else to help me do what I thought I should
be able to do for myself.  This feeling is constantly being reinforced
by others.  I now feel differently. I realize that if its OK for an
individual who is deaf to use a TDD or a person who can't type on a
key board to use a text scanner and switch, then its OK for me to have
other people assist me through those areas of difficulty.

Individuals with learning differences need to have good insight into
their own gaps in order to know when to ask for help, as well as why
kind and amount of help then need.  Some other low-tech options
include clear colored plastics overlays for printed material, index
cards for note-taking, and pocket calendars or any of the "executive"
organizer books and binders sold at many stationary stores.

With the advent of the computer chip many low-tech paper and pencil
aids have gone electronic.  Tiny spell checkers take the place of
clumsy dictionaries, small calculators do mundane math chores, and
electronic address books, calendars, and organizers take the place
of their paper predecessors.  These items can be purchased alone, or
incorporated into a multi-use computer, which can be a station at
home, at work, or a "laptop" or Powerbook handily hung from a
shoulder.  Software that anticipates the word from the first three
letters typed, and spell checkers and grammar checkers on the most
widely used word processors help tailor the computer to the specific
needs of the learning disabled person.  Spreadsheets allow the use to
"figure out" the formulae for every-day functions so that they are
instantly available as needed.  Data bases, project planners,
calendars, and similar software allow users to conquer those
pervasive organizational problems.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   36

The Computer Networks

The computer networks have been considered the "Great Equalizer" for
disabled individuals and this holds true for learning disabled
individuals of all ages.

Electronic mail and mailing lists, real-time chat, and text-based
virtual reality have become the motivating factors and students with
learning disabilities are now motivated to write clearly and with no
errors in spelling and grammar.  It is not uncommon to see these
children cutting lunch to find a little more time on the networks.

The Chatback Group provides an example of the use of mailing list for
education of cognitively impaired children.  Chatback is a project,
based in the United Kingdom and supported by IBM.  It was originally
aimed at language impaired children, but has been expanded to include
education in general with an emphasis on students with disabilities.
The following are examples of what has been accomplished.

Chatback is a project oriented list, designed to provide guidance and
support for teachers who are using the computer networks in their
classrooms.  During the past two years Chatback has introduced
several projects including:

Far Star where children responded to an Alien Being about the policy
and practices of Earth.

The Holiday Dinner, where children from all over the world described
a holiday meal;

Steel, where the 10 steel yachts, involved in a race around the world,
posted latitude and longitude.  Children followed the race by plotting
that information on maps.

Memories tells the story of World War II in Europe through the eyes
people who lived it.   A soldier who survived the Croatian Death
March; a schoolboy who lived through the London Blitz, and a Holocaust
survivor are just some of the people who are telling their stories.

In addition to the Chatback discussion aimed at projects for the
children, there are are other lists with different orientations.

Autism provides a forum for those interested in Autism and other
developmental disorders.  The subscribers include parents, relatives
and friends of individuals with autistic individuals, teachers and
researchers in the area, and individuals who are autistic themselves.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   37

Bicompal (Big Computer Pals) serves as the "classified ads" for
individuals who are looking for network contacts for people with
special needs.  The initial goal was to develop Big Brother/Sister or
Mentor/Student relationships among those with similar disabilities.
In practice peer relationships have developed in parallel with the
mentor relationships. One example involves a group of blind college
students in Austria who are planning to communicate with school
children in the New York City Board of Education Visually Limited
Program.

There are many other lists available at varied locations on the
Internet including those on ADD, Traumatic Brain Injury, and a list
aimed at Deaf Children.

Resources for education may be widely available on both gopher and
World Wide Web but the location of these resources has been a problem
until the development of lists like EdRes-L, Gopher Jewels, the NY
State Department of Education gopher, and WWWEduc.

The St. John's University Internet node has a special resource called
Unibase. Unibase has been under constant development by Leigh Calnek
of the University of Regina over the past 10 years and there are over
30 systems currently in operation in Canada, New York, the
Philippines, and Thailand. Unibase is a comprehensive system which
encompasses the most important forms of electronic communications
currently available on the for computers and the Internet.  These
include: local and Internet email, discussion groups, access to FTP,
telnet, and gopher, WWW and interactive conferencing.

The Unibase system at rdz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu has been integrated into
the Education and Rehabilitation network that is emerging at St.
John's.  During the past six months Unibase has been used as a
real-time conference center and recent conferences have included:
    1) A panel on learning styles, with panelists from the US and Canada
    2) On ongoing discussion group on violence in the schools
    3) Olga Galkina, from Moscow, was available for several Broadnets
       on Unibase where she was available to discuss her efforts to get
       disabled children in Russia on the Networks.

Note: A Broadnet is almost the opposite of a broadcast. A Broadcast
sends all the information across the nets in all directions.  A
Broadnet attracts those who telnet to participate; it is more like a
fishing net.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   38

A Multiuser Object Oriented (MOO) environment is a text based virtual
reality world in which the participants create their ideal
surroundings.  They are an offshoot of the text based adventure games
such as Zork except that the players have the power to create their
own rooms and objects.  Jeanne McWhorter saw the educational potential
of such an environment and created Diversity University, a virtual
college campus that was meant to provide the tools for higher
education.  At the present time, it is possible to walk through
Dante's Inferno or take part in a simulated Battle of Agincourt.
Diversity University Prep was created as a K-12 extension of DU and
several projects have been developed for children in special
education.  Learning disabled students from NY and VA are creating a
virtual performance of Shakespeare's The Tempest.  Graduate students
in School Psychology are involved in virtual externships with some of
these students and are looking at their creations as possible
protective instruments.  Learning styles are being measured, no on the
basis of the scores on some instrument, but in terms of the
environments the children actually create on the MOO.

While the emphasis has been on the learning disabled child, the
computer networks are effective tools for a person of any age.  For
several years, husband of co-author Anne Pemberton, Steve, grumbled
about her growing involvement with the networks even though he
realized that much of her time online was necessary to provide good
experiences for her Learning Disabled high school students. Finally,
he gave in and decided it would be easier to join than to fight. A
plumber and building systems technician by trade, his first time
online included a lengthy chat with a building engineer in New York
City. Soon after, he discovered and subscribed to a mailing list about
the Civil War, which tied into his volunteer work at a local park. His
initial trials of the gopher and World Wide Web systems yielded
information useful to, and to be incorporated in the History Pavilion
of the Virginia's PEN, to be used by Virginia students studying that
period in history. Steve's learning disability is most obvious in his
writing, which compares poorly to the rich language skills he has in
speaking, listening and reading. Use of the keyboard has increased the
quantity of words he generates, from single words and short phrases to
paragraphs of 2-3 complex sentences.  As with many new users, he's too
excited by the immediacy of electronic communications to do much
offline writing (which can be "cleaned up" by spell checkers and such),
so uses the "ask the wife" method of getting words down recognizably.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   39

Summary, Conclusions, and Implications

One focus of this paper has been on the discrimination faced by
individuals with cognitive disabilities.  In summary, there is an
underlying bias against all types of cognitive disabilities that does
not exist for those with sensory and physical disabilities.  The
student who cannot see  is not blamed for being blind, but learning
disability is somehow seen as the fault  of the student.  It is
fortunate that the techniques that maximize the potential of a student
we term learning disabled maximize the potential of all students.  We
have to eliminate our teaching disabilities and learn how to teach
more children.  Then we do not have to use the label Learning Disabled
as frequently.

A second point of this paper is based on the historical fact that the
main emphasis of the 20th Century was to perfect and automate the 19th
Century and the main emphasis of Education was to preserve the 19th
Century.  During these past 200 years we have seen a growth from the
quill pen to desk top publishing; from laborious hand calculations to
calculators and spreadsheets; from hand drawing to CAD; from library
card catalogs to World Wide Web.  Throughout this whole period,
however, Education has stressed the importance of handwriting,
arithmetic tables, and dated research techniques.  Why do we give
closed book tests, with an arbitrary time limit, where the student
does not have access to calculators and spell checkers?  This may be
appropriate for the 19th Century workplace, but it does not reflect
the tools essential for the 21st Century.  Our conception of the 3 R's
must be expanded and modified and there must be a re-evaluation of
what we mean by Elementary Education




Reading

Reading disability is one of the most serious problems in Education
today since it is a basic tool of any century.  Much of that problem,
however, has at its basis the rigid and standardized approaches in
reading instruction.  An alternative approach, Direct Access has
been summarized earlier, and this is just one instance of flexibility.
There has been a constant debate as to whether a phonetic or sight
approach is better for reading.  Researchers and theorticians on both
sides supported their arguments with words and data. Unfortunately,
with all this debate over the two ways of teaching reading, no one
looked to see if there might be two different kinds of children.
Reading and writing should not be taught, but expected of a child, the
way listening and speaking are expected and not taught.


        Zenhausern, Pemberton, Elman  drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu   40

Writing

The complaint that students do not how to write is echoed from the
Halls of the Third Grade and the halls of the University.  Pre School
children want to "write letters" explain things, and tell stories and
then they enter the First Grade.  Consider a 5 or 6 year old being
taught to write.  He or she must complete 2 or 3 pages of filled with
the letter "A" and is criticized for sloppiness.  As punishment
children are forced to write repetitive statements.  The separation of
penmanship and creative expression is evident in many programs where
the children write and worry about spelling later or where the teacher
takes dictation for the story the child tells.  I propose to let a
child learn to write on a computer and let handwriting be taught later
as an ancillary skill (much like we currently teach music an art).
Separate creative writing from graphology.  Keyboarding skills are
much more important in the workplace than handwriting.  This has a
natural potential for integration into strategies to teach reading.

Arithmetic

Poor performance in Mathematics is one of the more serious problems
faced by society today since Mathematics forms the basis of scientific
work which underlies progress.  I think that what we call mathematics
disability can be traced to an early problem in arithmetic.  Children
who cannot master their tables, multiplication, long division, etc.
are held back from advanced mathematics.  Given the widespread use of
calculators in the workplace, an insistence on rote calculations is
not a realistic preparation for the world after school.  I would like
to suggest a program based a three-pronged approach to the teaching of
mathematics: standard "paper and pencil"  calculations, intensive
experience with approximations, and extensiveuse of electronic
calculators and computers.  In the case of uneven development in these
three areas, the child will be allowed to progress differentially so
that difficulty in one prong does not interfere with growth in the
other prongs.

The final point of the paper is that we need to add an "I" for
information to the Three R's.  To survive in the 21st Century, a
person must know how to find information and know where to look for
information.  In the 19th Century, the goal was to cram as much as
possible into your memory.  In the 20th Century, the 19th Century was
automated.  In the 21st Century, one goal is to cram as much data as
possible into computer memory and still be able to find it.  The
students have will then have time to convert the data into information
and find creative uses for the information.

Authors:  Robert  Zenhausern
          Anne Pemberton
          Lois Elman

Email: drz@sjuvm.stjohns.edu
