=========================================================================
Date:         Thu, 19 Jan 1995 10:49:44 -0500
Reply-To:     Journal of Virtual Reality In Education Complete Journal
              <JVRE-ALL@SJUVM.STJOHNS.EDU>
Sender:       Journal of Virtual Reality In Education Complete Journal
              <JVRE-ALL@SJUVM.STJOHNS.EDU>
From:         Dick Banks <rbanks@SAVVY.COM>
Subject:      The Soul of a Moo Machine

@Copyright DUVRE and David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net 1994

        David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net                61

                The Soul of a MOO Machine

Abstract: In considering the attraction and future of Diversity
University and other educational Virtual Realities, the author
considers three aspects of the "Soul Factor" in people's connections
to such environments. The author also maintains that this "Soul
Factor" must be sustained for these environments to continue
developing their fullest potential.

Introduction:

  Whenever I try to explain to people what Diversity University is
and what I spend so much time doing there I find myself struggling
with realities.

    Well, my home computer uses the phone line and calls another
    computer where I have an account. This more powerful computer
    gives me access to the Internet. That computer connects
    through fiber optic cables to another computer in Daytona Beach,
    Florida. That computer has in it the MOO program and a database
    called "Diversity University." One database record has my name
    on it. When I connect I occupy that piece of the database. Other
    parts of that database are described as rooms or as objects to
    look at and use. Still other records are other people. And if
    you are connected at the same time as other people your pieces
    of the database can interact and it appears that you are talking.

  It is usually at this point that I notice a glazed look forming in
people's eyes, and I wonder why people don't understand. Yet while
this description sounds a little outlandish it does reflect one view
of the virtual reality environment we call DU Moo.

However, this techno-view of reality can easily become a trap. It is
sometimes tempting to think only of the wonders (or the
frustrations) of the computer terminal we are using, or the awesome
knowledge that our touch triggers electric signals that travel at
the speed of light from Iowa or Alaska, or Texas, or Israel, or
Germany, or Australia or wherever we come from to gather someplace
in Florida only to be sent out to all those places again. Or some
programming conundrum can so capture our attentions and imaginations
that we see DU as some crazy place to program fun things; being
virtual gods in total control over the very nature of that reality.
Or, if we have experienced text adventure games or some of the more
combative Muds and Moos on the Internet, we can view educational or
social environments as wonderfully inviting for mischief and
competition.

  The techno-view is a trap, because when we are seduced by it, we
fail to see what DU and other educational environments have that
make them so different. Then even we who share a larger vision of
those environments can end up messing up the future of such
environments. For that not to happen we need to recognize and
intentionally maintain what I call the "Soul Factor."



        David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net                62

      "The Soul Factor"

  There are many parts to our lives. There is our intellectual
part -- the place for ideas and understanding. There is the emotional
part -- the locale for our reactions to events and our judgments about
ourselves and the world in which we live. There is the physical
part -- the place where we sense our reality and where we actively
respond to it. Finally, there is the soul. I see the soul as that
aspect of our living that gives meaning and significance to all the
other parts. One could think of the soul as the unifying web of our
lives: everything we do affects our soul and in return is influenced
by what we deem important and worthy.

  We need to remember the "Soul Factor" in considering the present and
future of virtual realities such as DU, because it was the soul of
the place that encouraged our initial participation, and it is the
soul of the place that either keeps us coming back or leads us away.
Just as a human being needs an active soul to live a life of meaning
and fullness, so does a place (even a virtual place) need a soul to
continue to be vital to its participants.

  As I reflect upon my involvement in and continued commitment to
Diversity University and as I consider the prospects of future
expansion of its mission, I can identify three aspects of DU's soul
that must not be forgotten or neglected in order for DU's future and
the future of other similar educational realities to be long and
fruitful.


        Soul Factor #1: Connected for Support

  Since I identified myself as an ordained minister of a church and
set myself up as unofficial Chaplain at DU, I have been amazed at
how often people come to myself or to others for emotional and
spiritual support in trying to handle the circumstances of their
lives. There are many nights when I have found myself bleary-eyed at
2 or 3 in the morning talking to someone who desperately needed to
share their struggles with another human being who will listen. And
I know that I am not the only one in that activity. I have even been
in long-distance page conversations with people who need some advice
on how to handle the stories they are hearing. There is an active
'alanon' support group with 3 loyal participants. And I have been
told that at least 2 people on the verge of suicide have been
"talked down" through the Moo environment.

  And it isn't only the negative parts of life that are shared here. I
know of romances that have developed through the wires as well as
friendships. I count as real friends a number of people whom I have
never met physically, but with whom I have been connected through
the words we type. Why is that? And more importantly, why SHOULD
that be true?



        David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net                63

This is an important first factor in considering the soul of a Moo,
because it reminds us that on the other end of all those cables and
electrical signals sits another human being with hopes and hurts,
and with visions and disappointments. There sits another person who
is searching for something more in their life. Maybe they log on out
of loneliness or because they seek for knowledge. Or possibly when
they connect they are stumbling toward compassion and relationships
yet want to remain hidden behind the secure filter of the words and
the signals. Whatever the issues are (and I know I have heard only a
fraction of them) they come along with the character that logs on.

  The danger of the filter is that people might interact as an
altogether different character. On some Muds and Moos that sort of
role playing is encouraged, but in an educational environment this
sort of deception can be detrimental.

  Learning and growing involves a certain level of risk and of trust.
The risk in learning comes as we lower the defences around what we
already know and open the way for some new ideas to be entertained.
Most of these ideas represent re-adjustments to what we already know.
But some ideas represent radical changes to one's world view -- the
fundamental way we approach life, the universe and everything.
When you are open to learn you do not know what type of ideas will
come your way. In order for people to continue taking that risk in
learning there must be maintained an environment of trust, honest
interaction and genuine concern.

  This is true in real life where one can see and touch and listen to
the other person. Yet, when we come into a virtual reality situation
where the only contact one has is through a set of words that appear
on a computer screen, this environment of trust is more difficult to
maintain. However, when the participants remember the need and
intentionally foster and encourage supportive interactions, the
learning environment will reinforce trust and allow people the
opportunity to continue learning.


        Soul Factor #2: Connected for Curiosity

When I was growing up, (before the gas crunch), my families Sunday
afternoon entertainment was to go out driving. To explore the
community, looking at the houses and yards, seeing what things are
out there to see. My Dad had a particular way he would approach
these drives: he would never repeat a path. We would drive along the
road and my Dad would comment on how he'd never seen THIS road
before and then he would turn onto it. I think the game he was
playing was the let's-get-lost-and-see-if-we-can-find-home-again
game. We always did make it home and we always saw some interesting
things along the way. I continue part of that tradition while
driving on my real life journeys as well as when I journey through
virtual reality.



        David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net                64

  Every few days (or sometimes every couple weeks) I set my programs
aside and leave my construction unfinished and just 'walk' around
the Moo. On those 'walks,' I always try to go to parts that I have
not seen in a while. And when I do, I will sometimes see what old
friends have been doing lately, but am more likely to meet new
friends and experience new learning experiences. Why is it important
for me to do that? A drive for curiosity.

  What makes an education institution (even a Virtual Reality one)
continue is a genuine interest among its participants in the process
of learning. Whether as a teacher or a wanderer, it is the prospect
that through the next exit there might be an object, a room or a
person that holds something new to learn or to think about. In
talking with Jeanne McWhorter, one of the founders of Diversity
University, she used the image of a "living encyclopedia" in
referring to DU. I thought that image was both appropriate and
intriguing in considering the future of educational realities.
Through the diversity of people that participate and through the
wide range of interests they represent it is not too far-fetched of
an idea to see a virtual reality environment develop into just such
a resource. And as more people have access to such educational
environments it is ever more important for them to broaden those
resources so that people's curiosity will continue to be captured
and many more people will go out and "walk the moo."


  Another aspect of text-based virtual realities that makes education
there so interesting and accessible is that with creatively
programmed objects and some description skills the journey of
learning can be one of true discovery. Why just read about bones
when you can walk through Yorick the human skeleton. Or imagine how
you can discover pre-history by joining cave-people in fishing or
hunting, or even rediscovering the spiritual joys of delighting in
the world and in one's self by becoming a child in a playground of
delight. One's imagination is the only limitation in how different
ideas and facts can be taught and demonstrated.

  And when the learning is fun, people will continue to explore. And
as people continue to explore they will be inspired to share some of
what they know and the cycle continues.

        Soul Factor #3: Connected for Partnership

  One of the objects that takes up a surprisingly large amount of my
time is the "Generic Notice Board" on DU and Collegetown. It started
out as my attempt to make a place where I could store interesting
quotes without having to bother the wizards for quota for $note
objects. It also provided a worthy first programming project. Well,
I worked on the initial version for a couple weeks and set it up and
convinced a couple friends to use it as part of its testing. It was
simple and I was pleased with how it turned out.




        David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net                65

  Then a couple people paged me one day. "I'm using your Notice Board
and think it's really great, but have you thought about making it do
this..." They both then shared with me their vision for how they
could use the object much more efficiently if it did something more
or different. Well, I guess I am a sucker for good ideas and they
convinced me of their vision. So, I took out my code and looked at
it with some new eyes and adapted the code to add the new options
that were suggested. Not too long after that and then again and then
again other people paged me or wrote me with their appreciation and
then their suggestions for making it more useful in fitting into
their vision for their participation in DU. Some of the suggestions
have been easy, I can call up the verb in my editing window and work
on it while we are talking and they can try it out right away.
Others have been more far-reaching in the scope of the changes and
take a couple days or even (as is the case in the last major change)
a couple weeks. But the time and energy have not been an issue for
me, because I have caught some piece of someone else's vision for
using not just my object, but for using the environment.



  This is one example of the type of partnership that is possible in a
Moo environment. While some types of large group discussions are
often confusing and difficult, the ability to have people from
various locations interact in real time makes possible other types
of cooperative endeavors. This exploration of ways of cooperation
are important to the soul of the Moo. A shared vision for what we
can do together in this place. As long as there is an attitude of
co-creating the virtual world (with the freedom and responsibility
that goes with co-creation) then the soul will be strong. But when
either of those two polarities overpowers the other, the soul is in
danger.

  When freedom is abused and seen as freedom to do anything to anyone
because the virtual world is not really real then people will choose
to leave rather than face the offensive behavior. On the other hand
if too much emphasis is placed on control, then anyone with an urge
or desire to make something useful and interesting will not find
support or encouragement and will go elsewhere with their gifts, or
might even stop desiring to create and contribute from their unique
experience and set of interests.


        Conclusion

These three pieces of the soul of the Moo need to be honored because
they form an environment for growth and development. And even if we
must continue to deal with people who come and trample on our
flowers or insult the neighbors or even punch us in our virtual
faces, when we remember our connections as human beings, our
connections as learners and our connections as creators, the
environments will continue to thrive and face the challenges and
celebrations that come from our participation.



        David Morris  bweaver@worf.infonet.net                66

Author: David Morris is an ordained minister in the United Methodist
        Church living in Green Mountain, Iowa. He has been a
        participant in Diversity University Moo (DU) since April of
        1994 where he is currently a Programmer. His major projects at
        DU include the Interfaith Center and the Generic Notice Board.
        DaveM on Diversity University and Collegetown

        bweaver@worf.infonet.net
