
-- Start: Thursday, November 30, 1995 11:36:19 am DUtime (EST)

Isabel turns adminrecorder on.
Sky stands up from Walnut table. . .
Gustavo is here with 1/8th of an eye and 1/4th of his brain.. rpage at BioMOO if needed...
Isabel says, "I just started the recorder "
Cynthia smiles
Isabel smiles at Gustavo .
Isabel says, "I would like to welcome you all to OpenForum.. and let Andrew say a few words.. "
Juli appears here.
Cynthia Waves to Juli
Isabel smiles and waves 
Juli waves, sorry to be late!
Ken waves juli
Juli claps, is happy to be here
Isabel smiles at Andrew 
Andrew clears throat...."hm Hmm"
vivian sits up to listen
Andrew says, "Isabel asked me to make some opening remarks"
Ken listens attentively..
Andrew says, "can everyone hear me ok"
Cynthia nods vigorously
Juli nods
vivian nods
Sky grins.
Andrew smiles warmly at everyone
Isabel smiles
Jasminko nods
Andrew says, "its so weird to be formal with all you people....I feel like I know many of you personally"
Andrew says, "But I would like to welcome you to the first official public event at Open Forum"
Ken claps
Cynthia cheers!
Sky cheers.
vivian hoorays.
Jasminko claps...laggily..
Juli sprinkles mana on Open Forum
Andrew says, "for those of you who know me better than others, you will know that Isabel and a group of wonderful moo people have been hard at work on this space for some time"
Andrew says, "I would like to publicly thank her for all the time and effort that she has put into making this place a reality"
Ken applauds Isabel
Sky claps some more.
Cynthia claps for Isabel
Juli cheers for Isabel
vivian claps enthusiastically.
Isabel blushes .. and gives credit to Rui and Mark .. for much help.
Jasminko smiles at Isabel.
Andrew says, "Open Forum exists so that people can come together and learn and discuss policy issues relating to government and democracy"
Andrew says, "It also exists to serve the moo community at large, that I personally have learned to love and appreciate on many different levels"
Andrew says, "we certainly welcome your participation and are glad to have you with us...and are certainly proud that our first meeting is with moo people"
Sky smiles.
Ken moos
Andrew hopes that someone will give him the hook when they have had their fill
Cynthia chuckles
Andrew says, "there...Isabel gave me the hook!"
Andrew laughs
Sky . o O ( @create $thing named hook.... ;-) )
Isabel says, "perhaps we can just all say who we are.. and where we are from.. "
Isabel says, "and then get to the subject of the day "
Ken raises his hand..
Andrew says, "anyway..thanks for inviting me to open this meeting and I hope your time here is very productive."
Isabel acknowledges Ken
Ken stands up
Andrew bows to the assembled crowd
Cynthia claps for Andrew
Juli applauds Andrew
Sky claps!
Isabel applauds Andrew
Ken says, "hi.. thankjs.. sorry to be such a rude butinski but.."
vivian applauds again.
Ken says, "class starts in 10 minutes <grin>"
Donald applauds Andrew
Sky smiles at Ken.
Ken says, "I am happy to be here.."
Andrew smiles at Ken
Ken says, "I run collegetown and relaly enjoy collaborative work.."
Ken says, "just wanted to mention a few student projects"
Ken says, "that you are all invited to if you wish.."
Ken drops UPCOMING COLLEGETOWN EVENTS.
Ken invites folks to peruse events note..
Ken says, "thankyou!"
Ken sits down
Isabel smiles 
Cynthia smiles
Isabel says, "next?"
Sky raises her hand.
Jasminko grins
Isabel says, "sky.. then vivian "
Sky says, "I'm Sky, and I'm one of the admins of Meridian."
Sky says, "IRL, I work as a research scientist for Bellcore, which is in New Jersey."
Ken nods juli
Sky says, "interestingly, I'm now in California... so I'm putting into practice all the theoretical things I've studied about remote communication. :-)"
Sky says, "Glad to be here!"
Sky shutsup. :-)
Isabel smiles .. thanks
vivian smiles....sorry, I was just reading Ken's note. I'm still just listening.
Cynthia raises her hand
Isabe
>> Network buffer overflow: 49 lines of output to you have been lost <<
Isabel says, "there is nothing on those notes now"
Sky grins. "Ah, that explains why I couldn't read them. :-)"
Donald says, "oh that explains the problem."
Andrew nods
Cynthia says, "well, I think in terms of publicity, the Lingua MOO webpage and multimedia interface has done a lot to attract new players"
Isabel says, "sorry"
Isabel says, "so web page ."
Andrew [to Cynthia]: "good point..."
Isabel says, "what is the multimedia interface"
Sky [to Cynthia]: "And are they the
>> Network buffer overflow: 103 lines of output to you have been lost <<
vivian says, "Juli, what about asking how they found out about the event and then making sure to post to that list or newsgroup etc."
Sky says, "And having tools there that the target population might find really interesting to use after the meeting/on their own, etc."
Isabel says, "you are technically halfway to being a player"
Juli says, "I wonder if preceeding an event with 30 minutes of help activities might not be a good idea"
Juli nods to vivian
Isabel says, "for librrians who sign up to come to our workshop"
Cynthia says, "we have events, guest book, Help Kiosk, and an easy system of creating your room...in teh CoMOOunity...I think having that first digging made easier has helped us retain new users"
Isabel says, "we dod one on one orientations"
Donald says, "offering orientation sessions before a major event like a conference or even a class is a must I feel."
Isabel says, "so they get on a first name basis with at le
>> Network buffer overflow: 123 lines of output to you have been lost <<
Sky nods to Kaspar.
Donald says, "well MudShopII  in San Diego did a lot of that,  workshop on muds and education."
Juli says, "but you see, how do we find out about it?"
Sky [to Donald]: "But not *in* the Moo environment."
Donald says, "when that Arpa report comes out, maybe you can look at it."
Juli says, "at present it seems like one problem is how isolated the moo community is both from one another and from the general population"
Isabel says, "perhaps things like mudshops need to be posted to moo cows"
Juli says, "and edu-moo"
Sky says, "MudShop was an invitation-only event though...."
Isabel says, "not just 'scholarly' lists"
margit nods
Donald says, "oh online, I tried to suggest that.   Ulf  did not like trying online and real simultaneously, but maybe we should try  workshops online."
Sky says, "Maybe we need a non-invitational corollary. :-)"
Isabel [to Donald]: "..no just the information about them "
Donald says, "the ICDE conf. was useful, maybe we should hold something similar,"
Isabel thinks that future ones will be non invitation 
Isabel says, "but we are off the topic here "
Juli says, "well, th einvitational thing has it's benefits, but thre absolutely must be some that are widely publicized"
Isabel says, "can we come back to it .. a bit "
Isabel smiles
Isabel says, "may i summarize"
Sky nods. "Donald, it would be interesting to find out how many of the ICDE attendees returned to a MOO."
Isabel says, "we discussed PR and such to recruit"
Jasminko seconds Kaspar
Sky says, "And to find out more about their reasons for coming back, and not coming back."
Isabel says, "and user friendliness and such to retain"
Isabel says, "i think retention.. repeating is the thing"
Isabel thinks she was saying along with what sky said
Isabel has a cathandicap now.. cat and keyboard in my lap
Sky says, "It seems we've agreed that theme and events attract... the next step is repeating, and that's where we've generated obstacles like user-friendliness..."
Kaspar says, ":grins"
Cynthia says, "sounds like when I was in the hotel business...our return guests were always rewarded with monogrammed robes in their rooms waiting for them upon their next arrival...maybe we should start a return guest system :)"
Isabel [to Sky]: "does that aget to the 'what can i do for the moo' rather than what the moo can do dfor me"
Sky says, "And then, past the mere stage of returning, what gets people to 'stay' and become part of the community."
Sky grins at Cyn. Yeah!
Sky laughs.
Cynthia chuckles
Isabel [to Cynthia]: "you have that here"
Juli notes the Cynthia is absolutely right
Sky . o O ( t-shirts, frisbees.... :-) )
Isabel says, "as long as you return.. you have a char :)"
margit has disconnected.
Cynthia [to Isabel]: "Oh :)...thought you were going to say monogrammed robes :)"
Isabel says, "oops "
Isabel says, "well..  we could try those "
Juli says, "moo-nogramed robes?"
Sky . o O ( monogrammed characters? :-) )
Cynthia . o O ( @create $thing called MOO-o-gram robe! :) )
Kaspar says, "how about targeting allready exiting groups (e.g. reserach committees, conference organizers, etc.)?  anybody has experience of bringing them to the MOO (besides Cynthia)"
Isabel says, "but your passwords all should be waiting in your mail box"
Cynthia laughs
Isabel says, "yes.. "
Kaspar says, "oops exISTING groups"
Isabel says, "LIBRARIAS|NS"
Isabel says, "there should be the results of an interview being publishled in American Libraries"
Juli says, "actually, librarians are a very important group in terms of passing along the knowledge of existing moos in different disciplines"
Isabel says, "Well our hope is to give librarians new to the net.. mentors.. anda support"
Isabel says, "BioMOO supports biological researchers"
Sky says, "My thoughts on getting repeat guests revolve around the greeting/helping/friendliness phase.. and making sure the guest sees something at that MOO related to his/her interests (a resource that doesn't exist or isn't easy to find outside the moo)."
Donald says, "actually getting people to go from one moo to another just for a visit is hard enough.  Maybe this  Open Forum here will get people to open up a bit :)."
Juli says, "if I go to our library for help, I am led directly to the specific theatre resources available in hard copy and thru cd-rom, but moos could be added"
Kaspar [to Isabel]: "but not really a allready constituted group"
Cynthia nods to Sky
Isabel [to Kaspar]: "you mean librarians?"
Jasminko [to Kaspar]: "that's what I'm trying to do"
Sky says, "Then the key is having the right resources for your target grup."
margit has connected.
margit shakes its head as it awakes.
vivian th:agrees with Sky. If the newbies just see local people on the MOO there doesn't seem any reason to bother.
Sky nods.
Kaspar [to Isabel]: "right librarians is a class of people, but not a group who allready does work together"
Kaspar [to Jasminko]: "right"
Isabel says, "they do work ktogetherh "
Juli says, "but librarians are outreach personnel by definition"
Isabel says, "there are state level and regional level committees meeting all the time"
Isabel says, "up to national "
Kaspar [to Isabel]: "ah ok :) .. not like this here"
Jasminko says, "Culturelink network is a 6 years old project with some 800 members world-wide....needles to say many of those don't habe Net access..an if I get 10% that'll be a huge success.."
margit says, "but they shouldn't be....I have a librarian who is an integral part of my project...and at this INdy conference, the librarians from all of the schools were actually faculty"
Sky nods to Jasminko.
Isabel [to margit]: "are they on the  net? "
margit says, "some are , yes...and the others are about to join Walden Pond and create a vitual library and conference center there"
Isabel says, "librarians in many colleges and universities have faculty statusu"
Juli says, "i wonder if we shouldn't try to brainstorm some groups to contact, and as a group work on outreach"
margit says, "yes they have it, but don't use it"
Isabel [to margit]: "perhaps we can work with them "
Juli says, "or have a meeting to which we invite a particular group to meet with us"
margit says, "or are not asked to integrate their expertise"
Isabel says, "DU has made use of librarians"
margit says, "may I ask a question please?"
Isabel nods to margit
Cynthia likes Juli's idea of a meeting with cluster groups
Juli says, "in other words, each of us is from very different areas, and if we could target a group in our disciplines and then invite them to meet with us"
margit says, "it seems that the argument here is that MOO's are not getting enough attention, or that MOO's are not getting enough use...however.."
Kaspar [to Cynthia]: "that is actually the only thing we do at tecfamoo ... but it's hard"
Isabel says, "we have a   core of about 6 librarians.. out of the workshops. .we have gotten 2 more "
margit says, "I don't think the intent should at all be to bring others on just to bring them on...for me what has worked is to have ongoing projects that you begin to pull folks in on as collaboratators..it then builds itself"
margit says, "without the t"
margit grins
Isabel [to margit]: "I see the problem in 'pulling' them on"
Isabel says, "after the one workshop"
Sky rights. "That's what we keep coming back to...."
margit says, "I haven't had that problem"
Knekkebjoern has arrived.
Knekkebjoern waves.
Cynthia waves to Knek
Knekkebjoern sits down at Walnut table. . .
Sky waves.
Juli waves to knek
margit says, "perhaps they need to have a *reason* for being there"
Jasminko re-asserts the issue of off-line 'promotion'..sprading the word & knowledge of MOOs...
margit says, "there is a steep learning curve involved.....and"
Knekkebjoern stands up from Walnut table. . .
margit says, "unless one can show how MOO is an enhancement why bother?"
Donald says, "maybe its a false conception,  if you are a school, you pull them in , but when they graduate or growup whatever, they should move on also :)."
Isabel waves to knek .. 
Kaspar [to margit]: "recruting at large is a good idea if you just want a big moo, but is not the goal of ours .... actually at the moment I feel fine with a tiny one :=)"
margit [to Donald]: "what do you mean?"
margit [to Kaspar]: "mine is not large either"
Donald [to margit]: "not to you, but in general the idea of keeping people at one moo."
margit [to Kaspar]: "mine is focused...and not open..."
Isabel smiles at Donald.. no one keeps me on one moo
Kaspar [to margit]: "ah what MOO is yours ?"
margit says, "I think it depends on the purpose of being there"
vivian grins at Isabel. 
margit says, "some of us (all of us here!) are MOOers for a variety of reasons"
Sky says, "Meridian has been a slow-growth MOO by design, actually... nothing but word-of-mouth."
Isabel says, "I think CollegeTown is also "
margit says, "however, some might come on for particular reasons"
Cynthia says, "Lingua too"
margit [to Kaspar]: "Walden POnd"
Donald [to Isabel]: " you are one of the few who cross from moo to moo effortlessly, most of us MOOers don't actually do that :(."
Isabel gets burned some place for doing it 
margit is on at least 7 MOOs
Cynthia gasps...yikes! I'm late for another meeting...sorry to rush off :)
Isabel grins 
Isabel waves bye to cyn 
Cynthia says, "good meeting folks!"
margit grins
Donald says, "but its something that needs to be done also.  I will set up my moo tour travel agency to do that :). "
Isabel says, "thanks for coming "
Cynthia waves to all
Sky hugs Cyn bye.
vivian waves bye
Juli hugs Cynthia bye
margit waves
Cynthia has disconnected.
Gustavo never heard of "Walden POnd".
Isabel grins.. 
margit [to Gustavo]: "a well kept secret eh?"
Gustavo meant that case-insensitive.
Isabel met all sorts of folks on CollegeTown
Donald [to Gustavo]: "thats because its in Canada  , well in Alberta I recall."
Isabel says, "well Gustavo is here.. and this is in canada"
margit [to Donald]: "maybe not because it is in Canada...justbecasue it is private..."
Knekkebjoern has heard of Walden Pond.... so there :)
Isabel saw a post on BayMOO about it
Knekkebjoern . o O ( what are we discussing anyways? )
margit says, "sheesh...do come visit sometime...it is open to guests..."
margit says, "olympus.lang.arts.ualberta.ca 8888"
Isabel says, "so we should wrap up recruitment"
Sky says, "maybe have the next edumoo meeting there?"
Sky grins.
Donald says, "I believe there is some public event going on there now as announced by Wes. so its public now :)."
Juli grins at Sky
margit says, "that would be fine"
margit says, "we have public events here and there..and will have more"
Isabel says, "will we meet in december"
margit says, "what I meant by private...is that getting a char is dependent on projects and purpose"
Juli votes yes
margit says, "that's all"
vivian says, "What is the MOO's purpose?"
Sky votes yes, except she'll be out of town here and there during december.
Isabel says, "so will margit set up a time for the next meeting"
Jasminko says, "how about MOO as a Net access tool i.e. instead of looking for information looking for places (MOOs) -> there you'll get pointers&ppl you need..."
Donald [to margit]: " but that would mean DU is private :). "
Isabel grins
Donald says, "and most moos  here also. "
Sky says, "how about educational resources that one can provide for different target special-interest groups?"
margit [to vivian]: "the building of a virtual community/community service/educational projects that...oh good grief ...takes to long"
Kaspar says, "just a question out of context: anybody going to WWW conference in Boston ?"
margit [to Isabel]: "would you like to have the next meeting on the pond?"
Isabel raises her hand.. if someone will be there
Sky says, "The one sponsored by the W3C?"
margit is thinking about it
Isabel [to margit]: "you volunteered.. no one is incharge"
The housekeeper arrives to cart Cynthia off to bed.
margit says, "did I?"
Isabel says, "I live not far from Boston.. "
Kaspar [to Sky]: "yeah in 10 days ... it is closed now"
Juli votes to talk about Sky's idea of thinking about educational resources that one can provide for different target special-interest groups next time
margit doesn't remember volunteering
Jasminko yells at the lag_monster to put that last sentence somewhere in the context, now! :)
margit grins
jeanne appears here.
margit says, "hi Jeanne"
Isabel comforts jasminko
Juli waves to jeanne
jeanne says, "hi"
Isabel welcomes Jeanne
Gustavo might want to comment in this forum that BioMOO is now 2 years old... just that he was in the army at the exact date. :(
Sky [to Kaspar]: "I was thinking about it...."
jeanne waves to all
Donald says, "jeanne must have heard my comments that DU was private :). "
Isabel [to Gustavo]: "Happy Birthday"
margit laughs at donald
Gustavo waves jeanne, in that laggy way.
Sky waves to Jeanne.
vivian waves to Jeanne
Kaspar . o O ( how to I wave ? )
jeanne says, "sorry I'm late. this early stuff is not for me."
margit says, "early?????"
Kaspar grins
Sky grins.
margit [to Juli]: "she says early???"
Knekkebjoern waves in Jeannes direction.
Donald  waves Kaspar in usual way.
Juli has claimed the prize for being online early, sorry :-)
jeanne says, "anything before noon is early"
Sky nods Juli. "And a well-deserved prize it is!"
margit laughs
Juli smiles at jeanne
Isabel would like a chanaace to point out a BIG FEATURE of OpenFORUM
margit says, "not in Hawaii"
jeanne says, "what was this about DU being private?"
Jasminko grins
margit grins
Isabel says, "you can type @language French  and see this room described in FRENCH"
Juli wants to hear about the BIG FEATURE of OF
Isabel says, "and some objects "
margit [to jeanne]: "we were debating what is private..what it means"
Donald says, " just a joke Jeanne, you can read transcripts later. "
Isabel says, "OpenForum is a bilingual moo "
margit says, "yep"
Isabel says, "thanks to Rui.. "
jeanne ahs
Isabel says, "Oblivion of MOOsaico "
Donald says, "oh how to get the french in here ?"
Knekkebjoern wonders when the norwegian description is gonna be installed....
Isabel [to Knekkebjoern]: "go to moosaico for that "
Knekkebjoern smiles.
Juli wonders if we have made any decisions about the next meeting
jeanne bets they'd let Knekk do it if he wants.
Isabel thinks this meeting has done a lot of neat interesting wandering
Isabel nods to jeanne i am sure
Juli thinks this meeting has been fantastic!
jeanne says, "did anyone tak about academic recruitment?"
vivian is going to have to wander off to another meeting.   Bye all.
Isabel says, "yes. "
Juli waves to vivian
margit says, "sort of"
Isabel [to margit]: "will you be hostisng the next meeting"
vivian waves
jeanne says, "how to get the propper upperlevel admins in a school on?"
vivian has disconnected.
Isabel smiles. we  didn't get that specific
jeanne says, "I've only just gotten profs from U of H on to even look at it."
margit [to Isabel]: "we can do that, yes, if you like"
Donald says, "same as lower levels , one at a time :).  just kidding."
jeanne says, "DU can host at any time"
jeanne says, "might even have it at a time I can be awake"
Isabel [to margit]: "if you host.. you get to set the agenda"
margit laughs
Juli [to margit]: "and the time :-)))))"
margit [to Isabel]: "wow, what power!"
margit giggles
Isabel grins.. that is what i did.. 
Knekkebjoern says, "We can meet at meridian if you'd like.... sit by the beach in Kailuum and get a tan and all."
margit says, "kailuum?"
margit looks at Juli?
jeanne ives in Houston, has all the tan she wants (grin)
Knekkebjoern says, "in Mexico."
Jasminko has to go now..Nice meeting ya all! :) *waves*
Isabel throws a snowball at Jeanne 
margit says, "sounds like wehre I live....Kailua"
Isabel waves bye to jasminko
Juli waves to jasminko
margit says, "and how do I let everyone know about the next meeting?"
jeanne catches the snowball and plays with it

-- End: Thursday, November 30, 1995 1:05:30 pm DUtime (EST)


