Ria says to you, "OK... serious question time..."
>"ok go !
You exclaim, "ok go !"
Ria says "4th WWW Conference."
Ria says "Boston."
Ria says "Workshop on Webbed MOOs."
>"yeah right I was thinking of you !!!
You exclaim, "yeah right I was thinking of you !!!"
Ria asks "Want to be co-author?"
>"sure, cause I wanted to submit a proposal too
You say, "sure, cause I wanted to submit a proposal too"
Ria smiles at you.
Ria asks "For a workshop?"
>"exactly !
You exclaim, "exactly !"
Ria asks "Oh?  On what?"
>"a workshop on webbed MU*s ... he
You say, "a workshop on webbed MU*s ... he"
Ria grins.
>"already talked Marcus Speh into it btw
You say, "already talked Marcus Speh into it btw"

......

>"hmmm in fact I allready wondered if it would be a good idea to split this into 2 workshops, one very technical and the other centered on education and collaboration
You say, "hmmm in fact I allready wondered if it would be a good idea to split this into 2 workshops, one very technical and the other centered on education and collaboration"
RED espere que c'est le cas pour la cassette
>"but then the second one should be more open
You say, "but then the second one should be more open"
[connections] $root:user_connected: ringer has connected from 19 from pcnet1.pcnet.com.
->>> connected: ringer (#368) - total: 11
Ria agrees with you.
Ria ponders.
Ria says to you, "That's what we kinda thought -- split in two..."
>"it is a tough question: I have no idea how many people would attend a www-moo workshop (lots of the moo crowd is quite poor in terms of travel money)
You say, "it is a tough question: I have no idea how many people would attend a www-moo workshop (lots of the moo crowd is quite poor in terms of travel money)"
Ria nods to you.
Ria says to you, "But I think we need to get the general web community up to date on this."
Ria says to you, "They don't know what they're missing out on here."
>"right !!!
You exclaim, "right !!!"
Ria says to you, "Really, I reckon the workshops should be directed as a kinda outreach mission ;)"
Ria says to you, "Or perhaps have two:  one of them outreaching, the other coming up with some kind of spec or something..."
Ria ponders.
Ria says to you, "What we *really* need is a conference dedicated to webbed moos ;)"
Ria grins.
>"yes a good idea, the first a bit more general including other interfaces
You say, "yes a good idea, the first a bit more general including other interfaces"
>"we could do an european workshop in england
You say, "we could do an european workshop in england"
Ria ponders.
>"did you also look at this www workshop (I gave the URL) ?
You ask, "did you also look at this www workshop (I gave the URL) ?"
Ria hasn't actually looked at the call for workshops.
Ria nods to you and says, "I just looked at it now."
>"it does fit the collaboration end very much
You say, "it does fit the collaboration end very much"
Ria nods to you and agrees.
Ria says to you, "Do you have the url for the 4th WWW conference pages?"
>"hold on
You say, "hold on"
>"http://www.w3.org/hypertext/Conferences/WWW4/
You say, "http://www.w3.org/hypertext/Conferences/WWW4/"
Ria nods to you and smiles.
>"I thought of submitting a paper (on the educational aspects) also
You say, "I thought of submitting a paper (on the educational aspects) also"
Ria nods to you.
Ria says to you, "Gavin and I am planning to submit a paper and a poster..."
Ria says to you, "On the Living Document stuff."
Ria says "OK... here's what we need..."
Ria says "One Workshop discussing where we're going."
Ria says "One Tutorial to show people what's going on."
>"good idea !! ... thought about the tutorial too
You say, "good idea !! ... thought about the tutorial too"
>"let me have a short look at Darmstadt
You say, "let me have a short look at Darmstadt"
Ria nods.
>"they all got 1-2 person chairs
You say, "they all got 1-2 person chairs"
Ria hmms.
Ria asks "What about the Tutorials?"
>"what we could do for the conference workshop is: have a program committe that includes everyone listed so far and have somebody chair it who is willing and ABLE to do it
You say, "what we could do for the conference workshop is: have a program committe that includes everyone listed so far and have somebody chair it who is willing and ABLE to do it"
>"tutorials is the same
You say, "tutorials is the same"
Ria nods to you and agrees.
<.....>
>"ok now the topic: just MOOs and WWW or interfaces to other MU* too ?
You ask, "ok now the topic: just MOOs and WWW or interfaces to other MU* too ?"
Ria says "Well..."
Ria says "I would be inclined to say just MOOs and WWW."
Ria says "Simply 'cos that's what I know about."
Ria says "And it's a wide enough topic on its own."
>"ok good with me
You say, "ok good with me"
Ria says "So, the Workshop should deal with the technical aspects and coming up with some kind of suggestions for future work..."
>:nods
Kaspar nods
Ria says "Whereas the Tutorial gives the general WWW people an overview of where we're going with this technology."
Ria says "Covering its use in education and in the workplace."
Ria thinks that Gavin and Sam would be keen on the former and you and Marcus maybe the latter?
>"sorry hold on a minute
You say, "sorry hold on a minute"
>"back
You say, "back"
Ria smiles.
>"well marcus and I both do education too ... but I can certainly do something on WOOs for research
You say, "well marcus and I both do education too ... but I can certainly do something on WOOs for research"
>"marcus on MOOs in corporations
You say, "marcus on MOOs in corporations"
Ria nods to you.
>"do you want the workshop to be technical only ?
You ask, "do you want the workshop to be technical only ?"
Ria says "We ought to arrange a time for all of us to meet."
Ria ponders.
Ria says to you, "Not necessarily..."
Ria says to you, "I mean, the applications of the technology should guide its development."
>"maybe one of us can prepare a short session on the more conceptual issues
You say, "maybe one of us can prepare a short session on the more conceptual issues"
>"time is about 1/2 for each ?
You ask, "time is about 1/2 for each ?"
>"1/2 day sorry
You say, "1/2 day sorry"
Ria thought both full day.
Ria thinks otherwise we may as well do 1.
Ria ponder.
Ria ponders some more.
>"depends on the organizers of the conference of course .... 1/2 is short for REAL work of course
You say, "depends on the organizers of the conference of course .... 1/2 is short for REAL work of course"
Ria says "Quite."
>"how long were they in Darmstadt ?
You ask, "how long were they in Darmstadt ?"
Ria says "I guess we say 'here's what we do in half a day, and if we have a full day, we can also do this'..."
Ria thinks they were full day ones.
Ria nopes, half day.
>"yes just looked
You say, "yes just looked"
Ria nods to you.
Ria says "OK.  Half day each then."
>"tutorial in the morning ;)
You wink, "tutorial in the morning ;)"
Ria grins.
Ria asks "Why?"
>"we may get some guests for the workshop, or do you want it totally closed ?
You ask, "we may get some guests for the workshop, or do you want it totally closed ?"
Ria isn't exactly sure.
Ria thinks it would benefit if *at least* they knew something about mooing.
Ria says "Preferably having done it."
>"my solution is SEATED places around the table for ACTIVE participants who submitted a paper and the rest in the back
You say, "my solution is SEATED places around the table for ACTIVE participants who submitted a paper and the rest in the back"
Ria nods to you.
Ria says "That's probably a good idea -- but it depends how they run it."
>"did that at the 1st WWW conference and it worked
You say, "did that at the 1st WWW conference and it worked"
Ria nods, "OK, good."
Ria says "Tell you what..."
Ria says "Gavin and I have come up with some of the main issues..."
Ria says "I'll send you and Sam a copy, and a bit about what we've talked about here."
Ria says "You can forward that on to Marcus."
Ria says "Then we can all arrange to meet, say... Friday morning?  Or tomorrow morning?  to discuss it."
Ria says "Only Sam's on hawaiian time, so it's hard to catch him."
>"ok ! ... and in the next week we come up with a first good draft for both ?
You ask, "ok ! ... and in the next week we come up with a first good draft for both ?"
>"if you want I can htmlize what you send me
You say, "if you want I can htmlize what you send me"
Ria nods and smiles, "Great :)"

